so you're enjoying your morning run in
the park before work and then suddenly a
stray dog runs up to you looking like
it's ready to attack you well what
should you do in a situation like this
should you run should you fight should
you give them a dog biscuit that might
be a good idea give them something else
to munch on here are the most helpful
recommendations of experts on how to
keep yourself safe from dogs or what to
do if you're attacked who is at risk
most of the time joggers cyclers and
other fast moving people get attacked
the thing is dogs react to movement and
it triggers a chase instinct plus they
may consider some area theirs and if you
trespass in their property they might
try to protect it so what to do if you
see that a dog is ready to attack you
part one avoiding the attack don't panic
many people believe that dogs and some
other animals can kind of sense human
fear well it's not that they really
sense the fear it's just that they
become more confident when they see that
their prey is intimidated so no matter
how hard it is try to stay calm if the
dog sees that it can't scare you it
might think you're a dangerous person to
mess with don't dispel its illusions
don't try to rot first things first
dogs are faster well at least most of
them accept this fact and relax there's
no chance you can run away it's not even
worth trying secondly running will
provoke the dogs instinct to chase so
you might create a problem yourself even
if the dog didn't mean any harm in the
first place stand still if you were
running slow down to a walk and then
stop completely most likely if the dog
saw you as a threat when you were moving
fast the threat must be eliminated
either by you or by the dog we prefer
the former so if you stopped moving
chances are the dog will lose interest
in you and walk away also it's better to
stand sideways to the dog this way you
will appear slimmer
to it which means you are less of a
threat don't make eye contact direct eye
contact may make the dog more aggressive
it may be a reason for an attack your
best course of action is to keep the dog
in sight but avoid direct eye contact
this will signal to the dog that you are
not dangerous and it can let you go
unharmed make fists no not for fighting
fists are necessary to protect your
fingers from getting bitten off even if
the dog bites your fist it is much
easier to break free from that distract
the dog with another object if you have
something in your hand threw it in
another direction it can be a bottle of
water your bag or anything else if you
have nothing you are ready to throw away
pretend that you are picking something
up from the ground and throw it far away
after all dogs are very playful animals
maybe this one wasn't attacking you but
trying to attract your attention all
kidding aside distracting the dog might
give you the necessary time to escape
command the dog to back away if the dog
doesn't want things to go nicely you
have no choice but to be rough to tell
it in a firm voice no or back away make
sure you sound confident and strong if
it sound like a five-year-old child
which is forgivable in this situation
the dog will sense it and you will be an
even bigger danger but what if you
couldn't avoid the attack what you to do
to get as little damage as possible part
two defending yourself
fight back if the dog starts biting you
even after you have demonstrated all
your negotiation skills you'll have to
do all it takes to protect yourself try
to hit the dog in the nose in the throat
or the back of the head a good smack
might give you the time to escape yell
for help dogs can kill you must realize
that so it's perfectly okay to ask for
help maybe somebody will hear you and
help you get rid of the dog
protect your face and neck whatever it
takes
don't let the dog get to your vital
parts your neck or your face if you do
you won't be able to protect yourself
anymore try to put something between you
and the dog mmm like that mailman over
there
anyways use your weight to press the dog
against the ground it's only weapon is
its mouth full of teeth try to avoid
that in if you manage to keep safe from
that you will win the fight your goal is
to immobilize the head you can do that
by pressing the dog's neck okay
let's say that you show the dog who is
boss it gets scared and runs away what
should you do after part three after the
attack see a doctor even the smallest
wound may be an open door for an
infection use water to wash the wound
and a bandage to stop the bleeding see a
doctor even if you don't think you
should the dog might be rabid so a
series of shots might be necessary
report the dog call the authorities and
inform them about the accident describe
everything you can remember this
information might save someone else's
life tell us about your experience with
dog attacks in the comments section
below and share this video with your
friends to help keep them safe don't
forget to click subscribe to join us on
the bright side of life
[Music]